Rinay Apostolopoulos		FI 334
Supernatural Film, Assignment #2
	Ghosts have been a common theme in supernatural narratives for generations. The idea of the dead being able to walk amongst the living is typically a terrifying concept, especially when supernatural films have often given them a reputation for being vengeful, miserable spirits. Film director George Marshall stuck to this tradition in his 1940 motion picture, The Ghost Breakers. However, this is no mere horror film. It is a comedy before anything else where the living antagonists pose a bigger threat than any supernatural beings do. Having begun as a play in 1909, The Ghost Breaker has undergone several film adaptations, all with roughly the same title. The first was in 1914, then another in 1922, and finally another in 1940 when George Marshall decided to try his hand at interpreting the story with the title The Ghost Breakers (this time with an “s”). However, thirteen years later, in 1953, Marshall remade the movie yet again. It went under the name Scared Stiff. Regardless of this drastic change, it is almost surprising how little the 1953 adaptation differs from the 1940 one. Despite this, the differences that were made were even more surprising for me, as they made me question whether they were enough to justify remaking the entire film in the first place.
	Marshall’s first version starred actors Bob Hope as Lawrence Lawrence Lawrence (“Larry” for short) and Paulette Goddard as Mary Carter. Following them on their adventure is Larry’s valet by the name of Alex (played by Willie Best) whose main purpose is to play off of Larry’s witty humor with his own and, on more than one occasion, come to Larry’s and Mary’s aid. In fact, Larry’s and Alex’s roles are quite similar in that they are both devices for comic relief as well as progressing the story along with their hero roles. Now, with this said, while Alex does add greatly to the enjoyment of the film, he is still a secondary character at best and the story revolves most importantly around Larry and Mary.  
      The film begins with Mary inheriting a mansion in Cuba and coming across several suspicious characters along the way who try to dissuade her from taking the trip to her new estate on Black Island. She is warned several times of ghosts and voodoo, yet her coolheaded composure wills her to move forward regardless.  Paradas offers her fifty thousand dollars for the castle and a man named Mendes calls her immediately after to warn her not to make any deals to sell the property. Meanwhile, Larry finds himself in potential danger with a crime boss named Frenchy Duval. After believing he accidentally shot and killed Mendes, whom he assumed to be one of Duval’s men, he resorted to confiding in Mary to help him escape the police and Duval undetected. Mary calmly and willingly gives him the go-ahead to hide in her hotel room while the police search the vicinity, regardless of the fact that he was a stranger to her who had just been pointing a gun at her.  He ends up hiding in her luggage and gets unintentionally sent off on a cruise to Cuba. Luckily for him, this is the perfect getaway for him to evade the cops and Duval, while simultaneously getting a chance to repay Mary for helping him. He chooses to act as a bodyguard for her when she finds her life being threatened by anonymous sources. Alex gets dragged along against his will and seems to be the only voice of reason when the characters find themselves in the haunted castle. Regardless of running into a ghost, a zombie, and various other supernatural threats, the trio finds that the source of all of their fears was no more than a well-thought-out scheme from an old friend of Mary’s to claim the riches that lied beneath the mansion for himself. Interestingly enough, the only truly inexplicably supernatural character in the entire film was a ghost who had happened to be harmlessly minding his own business the entire time. 
      Marshall’s 1953 adaptation, Scared Stiff,  not only follows the previous plot nearly to a T, but even keeps most lines of script exactly the same as well. There were, nevertheless, some key distinctions between the two films. For one, the names of every character had been changed to some degree and even Black Island had become Lost Island. More importantly, Scared Stiff was treated almost like a musical. An early scene helps establish both this concept of a musical and the relationship between Larry and Alex (who are now friends rather than employer and employee) as the two briefly sing to each other. Except, it turns out to be not really much of a musical at all and, well, Alex is not actually Alex anymore either. He is replaces by a very exuberant character named Myron Myron Mertz (played by Jerry Lewis) and any singing parts that take place during the rest of the movie are with the intention of being performance acts by the characters for an audience within the film, as opposed to being spontaneously occurring as they are in most musicals. Most of what needs to be said about the distinction between Marshall’s 1940 and 1953 adaptations definitely should be accredited to Myron’s character. He is introduced not as a substitute for one character, but rather as a mergence of two with an added twist of having a very played-up flamboyance. His comically redundant name is already a dead giveaway that Myron Myron Mertz was made to take on aspects of Lawrence Lawrence Lawrence’s character.  If this is not enough of a clue, the fact that Myron is literally given a number of lines from both Larry’s and Alex’s scripts from the 1940 movie should be. This comes at a cost, though. While Myron makes for a very fun character, one can be too extravagant. There were times I found myself badly missing Alex’s believability. And this new Larry (now renamed Larry Todd and played by Dean Martin) was practically dry compared to the Larry I came to know and love from the first film. All of his witty dialogue had been stripped away and pushed onto Myron; the one payoff to this being that his personality and animated body language allowed for an entirely new slew of jokes that may not have worked as well in the previous film. Likewise, if you wanted to take the horror aspect of a supernatural horror-comedy seriously, the downplayed humor of The Ghost Breakers would get the job done. Overall, while The Ghost Breakers does its job as a comedy, Scares Stiff is a comedy, no questions asked. 
